In ancient times, from prehistoy to Modern Age, Human migrantion depended on climate change or war. The reason is that in a pre-industrial  society, agriculture was the main economical process. Agriculture and livestock depend strongly on climate conditions. Even in nomad culture based on hunting, the climate is a fundamental condition.

In modern  societies, where capitalistic structure is widespread, and there is usually a differential geographical  power to acquire capabilities in a [[Amartya Sen]] meaning, migration is the moving of people not from one territory to another one but from one society to another one. Society means economic income and outcome. Power of purchase , salary and wages but even differen safety, health care facilities, estate, etc.
Capitalism tends to create different [[economic profit]] from area to area. 
This lack of profit in a region produce an economic constrain similar to the climate constrain of [[pre-industrial migration]].

In a pre-capitalistic world the relationship between society and territory is primary. It means that agricultural society  and hunting one are competely determined by territory. Conversely,  In an advanced capitalistic society , the relationship society and territory is secondary. At the beginning territory produced favorable conditions for the creation of  a capitalistic society, but at the end the relation is very weak. Wall street can be moved in another city like London or Paris and nothing will change. It seems that this concept can be connected to the globalization phenomenon of [[de-territorialization]] . According to Behr, H. (2007). Political Territoriality and De-Territorialization. _Area_, _39_(1), 112–115. , the modern principle of territoriality it is related  to four subgroups: [[sovereignty]], [[integration]], [[border]], [[security]]. They look as the 'containers' of a social device. Every complex mechanism, needs integrity, a management of power, limits to define the device and an immune system to mainain the social device 'healthy'.
But in the case of modern supercapitalistic society, these bounds do not need the concept of territory, as a substrate. Like a modern library does not need anymore shelves in order to save cultural records (books) because all is contained in 'digital shelves', at the same time  in modern society physical territory may only serve to fiilter the logistical entities (commodities and human beings), but cannot be the necessary condition for the device as it was before. The social device can be 'cloned'elsewhere. Still exist sovereignty, integration, border and security but of different nature. The same object of capistalist model of expanding marktes, needs the 'regionalization'of whar were before countries and tha now are simple 'regions'on model. But on another side there is a new aspect that is beyond [[globalization]] and consist in progressive  separation of human being from the source of wealth. In in an ancuent society farmes produced what the used. Now every human being is distant and separated from produccion of food. We can calculate from the soil produccion many steps far from the source. What is new is while the farmer was obliged to live in a territory , now this is only a part of the process. The long chain that needs different steps to produce and bring food to human people can be, delocalized. Territory is not necessary but only a part of the process(soil). This new society needs a strong social set of rules that become so important to maintain the funcionality of the device. thisset of norms is the modern territory.because manage power (sovereignty), integration, security and border.
