---
kindle-sync:
  bookId: '10040'
  title: >-
    At Home in the Universe: The Search for the Laws of Self-Organization and
    Complexity
  author: Stuart Kauffman
  asin: B004VEEO12
  lastAnnotatedDate: '2024-03-04'
  bookImageUrl: 'https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/816nosQzt0L._SY160.jpg'
  highlightsCount: 18
---
# At Home in the Universe
## Metadata
* Author: [Stuart Kauffman](https://www.amazon.comundefined)
* ASIN: B004VEEO12
* Reference: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B004VEEO12
* [Kindle link](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B004VEEO12)

## Highlights
Rube Goldberg machines. — location: [158](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B004VEEO12&location=158) ^ref-51378

MAcchine complesse ma inutili

---
The existence of spontaneous order is a stunning challenge to our settled ideas in biology since Darwin. Most biologists have believed for over a century that selection is the sole source of order in biology, that selection alone is the “tinkerer” that crafts the forms. But if the forms selection chooses among were generated by laws of complexity, then selection has always had a handmaiden. — location: [174](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B004VEEO12&location=174) ^ref-37603

---
If all this is true, what a revision of the Darwinian worldview will lie before us! Not we the accidental, but we the expected. — location: [178](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B004VEEO12&location=178) ^ref-37319

---
The revision of the Darwinian worldview will not be easy. Biologists have, as yet, no conceptual framework in which to study an evolutionary process that commingles both self-organization and selection. — location: [179](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B004VEEO12&location=179) ^ref-25055

---
It is not entropy but the extraordinary surge toward order that strikes me. Trees grabbing sunlight from a star eight light-minutes away, swirling its photons together with mere water and carbon dioxide to cook up sugars and fancier carbohydrates; legumes sucking nitrogen from bacteria clinging to their roots to create proteins. — location: [210](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B004VEEO12&location=210) ^ref-41725

---
Thermodynamics be damned. Genesis, thank whatever lord may be, has occurred. We all thrive. — location: [215](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B004VEEO12&location=215) ^ref-541

---
Biological evolution may be a deeply historical process, as Darwin taught us, but lawlike at the same time. — location: [265](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B004VEEO12&location=265) ^ref-62807

---
chutzpah? — location: [306](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B004VEEO12&location=306) ^ref-3497

---
As Steven Weinberg phrased it in his recent book title, it is the “dream of a final theory.” Weinberg’s characterization of the ancient quest is heartfelt. We seek reductionist explanations. Economic and social phenomena are to be explained in terms of human behavior. In turn, that behavior is to be explained in terms of biological processes, which are in turn to be explained by chemical processes, and they in turn by physical ones. — location: [308](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B004VEEO12&location=308) ^ref-28621

riduzionismo

---
The flash of the Big Bang 15 billion years ago — location: [377](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B004VEEO12&location=377) ^ref-15369

---
It is a nonequilibrium universe filled with too many hydrogen and helium atoms compared with the most stable atomic form, iron. — location: [378](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B004VEEO12&location=378) ^ref-4964

---
Physicists, chemists, and biologists are familiar with two major forms by which order arises. The first involves what are known as low-energy equilibrium systems. — location: [385](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B004VEEO12&location=385) ^ref-59118

---
The second means by which order arises requires a constant source of mass or energy or both to sustain the ordered structure. Unlike the ball in the bowl, such systems are nonequilibrium structures. — location: [393](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B004VEEO12&location=393) ^ref-22285

---
Nonequilibrium ordered systems like the Great Red Spot are sustained by the persistent dissipation of matter and energy, and so were named dissipative structures by the Nobel laureate Ilya Prigogine some decades ago. These systems have received enormous attention. In part, the interest lies in their contrast to equilibrium thermodynamic systems, where equilibrium is associated with collapse to the most probable, least ordered states. In dissipative systems, the flux of matter and energy through the system is a driving force generating order. In part, the interest lies in the awareness that free-living systems are dissipative structures, complex metabolic whirlpools. — location: [401](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B004VEEO12&location=401) ^ref-16019

---
the order in organisms may not be the result of selection at all, but of the spontaneous order of self-organized systems. — location: [486](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B004VEEO12&location=486) ^ref-53176

---
The order of organisms is natural, not merely the unexpected triumph of natural selection. — location: [488](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B004VEEO12&location=488) ^ref-46051

---
For example, I shall later give strong grounds to think that the homeostatic stability of cells (the biological inertia that keeps a liver cell, say, from turning into a muscle cell), the number of cell types in an organism compared with the number of its genes, and other features are not chance results of Darwinian selection but part of the order for free — location: [488](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B004VEEO12&location=488) ^ref-37619

---
If this idea is true, then we must rethink evolutionary theory, for the sources of order in the biosphere will now include both selection and self-organization. — location: [491](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B004VEEO12&location=491) ^ref-48260

---
